So, that's enhancers.
And as I kind of alluded to before when
we were asking and answering questions,
was apply middleware creates one enhancer
out of a series of a chain of middleware.
One of the useful ways to think
about this is, enhancers are kind of
useful if you wanna change the overall
implementation of your store.
We have not looked at the Redux Dev Tools,
yet.
But, I'll give you a little bit of a sneak
peek, which is it has a whole bunch of
things like the ability to load in state
through the dev tools, export the state
from the dev tools, dispatch actions,
undo, and redo and all these features.
So, it's adding a lot of
functionality to Redux.
And so,
it's definitely gonna use an enhancer.
However, if its something like,
I just wanna modify actions as they
come through cuz I wanna do async things,
I wanna log them, we use middleware.
For instance, we use middleware to
log customer behavior to segment or
something along those lines.
So, like, they're firing these actions,
they're visiting this page,
will log that to segments, or
data dog, or what have you?
So you might say, as actions flow through,
I wanna do something.
Middleware is a really,
really great way to modify how dispatching
actions works in your application.
And, effectively, it is an abstraction
over an enhancer, which is a way for
just managing actions
as they flow through.
And apply middleware allows you,
out of the box, to compose
an entire chain of middleware.
Let's go ahead and
well look at how that might work for us.
So, let's go ahead.
We'll get rid of these for now.
Actually, we'll keep them cuz
we're gonna use them for parts.
>> Why is the enhancer passed
through the enhancer, again?
>> So you're matching the same API.
My gut says, I was thinking
about this earlier, my gut says
is probably memorizing it, which is if
you've got the same enhancer as last time,
we're not passing it through again, right?
So we're trying to, if we get the same
enhancer, don't pass it through each time.
But you wanna make sure you're
following the same API.
Cuz you could, theoretically, modify
the enhancer and replace it, as well.
If you want me to come up with
a hypothetical use case for
why you would ever wanna do that,
I cannot.
But it is there to do,
if you needed to do it.
But yeah, I think your god of,
I shouldn't do that,
is probably a good spiritual
thing to listen to.
All right, so middleware is just
got a slightly different syntax.
So, we'll go ahead and
we'll say something like, this one,
I will make the logMiddleware and
you can make the enhancer this time.
So, I'll say we'll make
some logMiddleware.
And middleware is much more common.
Like I said, we use it for logging actions
to our different data reporting tools.
You can use it for
all sorts of different things, as well.
But let's see, this is more likely that
you will almost never write enhancer and
you will absolutely, maybe,
possibly, with a chance,
write some middleware
like we definitely have.
So it takes a bunch of curried functions
because things get passed in at
different times.
So, we could say store, next, and action.
What's the store?
Is the actual store that we created,
right?
Next is, actually,
dispatch, cuz each piece of middleware
will call the next piece of middleware.
Kind of, so,
the question I just received, right?
Where you can call the next
one in an array of middleware.
Finally, when you get to
the end of the array,
then you're dispatching to the reducer.
And the cool thing about middleware is,
like the enhancers that we just wrote,
it gives you the opportunity to do a bunch
of things before you hit the reducer.
And then also, again,
after it leaves the reducer.
So, you get to insert yourself
at both places there, as well.
So, with the logMiddleware, we'll simply
say something along the lines of,
and you'll see that the syntax
is a little bit cleaner.
So, we'll say something like console.log.
And we'll say old state and we'll say
store.getState.
And I mean we could log the action too.
And we'll pull that down here,
one of the const we got before is,
we wanna call with the new state.
This time, since we're just using the
store, is very much before we can call it
getstate and it will be
the current state of that moment.
So, we'll say new sate, and here we'll
say Next, and give it the actual action.
So, it flows through, right?
So, now, we can pass it in there as
an enhancer, but it's middleware.
So we just have to use
the applyMiddleware.
Cool and you can see old state and the way
we're not really modifying the state here,
but you can see it each time.
We've got an old state and
new state beforehand.
So, this is everything happens before you
passes through the rest of the middleware
and eventually the reducer.
And then you get access to it,
again, after it's left all of
the middleware and the reducer.
So, it's a cleaner and simpler syntax for
writing those enhancers.
So you don't have to make a whole
bunch of enhancers compose them.
You're just trying to intercept actions.
This is super useful.
The most famous, yeah,
sure, let's go with it.
The most famous use case for middleware
is a library that is using Redux Toolkit.
And very commonly in Redux
applications called Redux Thunk.
So let's say, hypothetically,
you needed to make a Ajax request or
a fetch HTTP request.
You could dispatch an action,
but actions aren't valid.
So what could happen was, you get the
action here, then you fire the promise or
the Ajax request, and then you fire
a real action afterwards, right?
And that is kind of, normally we use
a library called Redux Thunk, but
that is effectively how it works.
It's just type checking.
Like if type of action is actually
a function, call the function and
pass a dispatch and
allow it to then figure out what to,
and passes through the rest of it.
So that is the most common case for
middleware is,
anytime you need to change how
actions flow through the pipeline, and
you don't wanna write an entire
enhancer and compose them all together.
Middleware is a really,
really great way to do that.